There has been an ongoing research on affect recognition in various fields from AI to build empathic machines for healthcare in order to reduce the cost of various diseases associated with mental health. From the healthcare perspective, stress has been considered to account for 37% of all work-related ill health cases based on a study by British Health and Safety Executive (HSE)(Health and Safety Executive, 2016).
In this study, the WESAD dataset, which is publicly available through the UCI Machine Learning Repository, is used. The data was obtained by a previous study on affection detection by Schmidt et al. (Schmidt et al., 2018). The following sensor modalities are included in this dataset: blood volume pulse (BVP), electrocardiogram (ECG), electrodermal activity (EDA), electromyogram (EMG), respiration (RESP), body temperature (TEMP), and 3-axis accelerometer (ACC) for motion detection. These values were measured with two wearable devices- a chest-band and a wrist-band (Schmidt et al., 2018). In this study, data from the chest-band sensor with six signal channels and 700 Hz recording frequency was used.
The goal of this project is to improve the classification algorithms on this dataset by two methods: (1) extracting three features from the time-series datapoint segmentations (Zanin, Zunino, Rosso, & Papo, 2012) (2) by using the original time-series in a Neural Network algorithm. Algorithms such as Decision Tree (DT), Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), and k-nearest neighbor (kNN) were used in the original research (Schmidt et al., 2018). In this study, Random Forest Classifier (RFC), AdaBoost enhanced DT, and Support Vector Machine (SVM) for converted time-series, and Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) for original time-series are incorporated. F_1 score and accuracy were the considered parameters for evaluation of the aforementioned classification algorithms. Finally, the performances of four algorithms were compared with the original study. 
